Now how does Flutter and Dart therefore then work internally? How is your Flutter app actually converted
to a native app which can be published to the app stores? Well you have your Dart code which uses the
Flutter framework or the Flutter API as I call it here, which stands for application programming interface.
In the end that just means that Flutter gives you a collection of functions, of widgets, which you can
use in your code to build the interface you want to build.
So you have your own widgets and your own code then composed of that set of built-in widgets or your
own widgets which you can also build and you want to build for Android and iOS.
Now as I said, Flutter simply compile that Dart code to native code for these different platforms
and that happens with the help of the Flutter SDK
and as a result, you get real apps spit out with highly optimized high performance code that's based
on your code
but that's not your code itself,
instead it's the compiled version of that code and therefore you really ship code that runs on the different
platforms
and that's optimized and high performant because performance is actually a huge advantage of Flutter
apps, Flutter out of the box gives you high performance applications.
Now in case you worked before with let's say React Native which is kind of an alternative to Flutter and I'll
come back to this in a second,
it's important to understand that Flutter does not use platform primitives.
Now what do I mean with that? We're having our Flutter app and we're targeting iOS and Android.
Now if we want to add a button then in Flutter with this UI as Code approach, we do so by adding a
RaisedButton.
Now this is just an instruction in your Flutter code which tells Flutter to render a button in that part
of your widget tree.
Now you could think that what happens when the code gets compiled to that native code is that this
RaisedButton is translated to hey iOS,
please give me your default button, which would be a UI button element in the iOS development world and
for Android, a widget.button, that we get these native buttons which are of course part of the native
development environments
and that's not what happens.
Instead Flutter has its own implementations because Flutter, and that's really important to understand
and to keep in mind, directly controls every pixel on the screen.
So Flutter does not compile your code to some native equivalence or native alternatives, instead Flutter
ships with its own engine which controls the entire screen, everything the user sees and renders every
pixel on its own and that gives Flutter a lot of control and a lot of flexibility.
Now you don't have to care too much about that because Flutter does it for you but it's important to
be aware of that because that gives Flutter more control and less limitations and therefore, you implicitly,
indirectly benefit from that.
You have a good performance,
you have a lot of power, a lot of things you can configure,
you have full control over how you want to build your user interface.